README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img alt="dots" src="./.github/dots.svg" width="150" />
  <h1>isabel's dotfiles</h1>

  <img alt="stars" src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/isabelroses/dotfiles?color=f5c2e7&labelColor=303446&style=for-the-badge&logo=starship&logoColor=f5c2e7" />
  <img alt="ci" src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/isabelroses/dotfiles/check.yml?label=build&color=a6e3a1&labelColor=303446&style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=a6e3a1" />
  <img alt="repo size" src="https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/isabelroses/dotfiles?color=fab387&labelColor=303446&style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=fab387" />
  <img alt="license" src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?style=for-the-badge&label=License&message=GPL-3&logoColor=ca9ee6&colorA=313244&colorB=cba6f7" />
  <img alt="nixos-unstable" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/NixOS-unstable-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=303446&logo=NixOS&logoColor=white&color=91D7E3" />
</div>

<br />

![Preview image](./.github/images/main.png)

<details>
   <summary>more previews</summary>

   <p align="center">
      light mode
      <img src="./.github/images/lightmode.png" width="800px" />
   </p>

   <p align="center">
      wezterm + chromium
      <img src="./.github/images/blur.png" width="800px" />
   </p>

   <p align="center">
      neovim
      <img src="./.github/images/nvim.png" width="800px" />
   </p>
</details>

![image of my flakes topology](./.github/images/topology.png)

<!--toc:start-->

- [Foreword](#foreword)
- [What does this repo provided](#what-does-this-repo-provided)
- [Config layout](#config-layout)
- [Usage Notes](#usage-notes)
  - [Using the templates](#using-the-templates)
  - [Shortcuts](#shortcuts)
  - [Installation Notes](#installation-notes)
    - [NixOS](#nixos)
      - [Dual boot](#dual-boot)
    - [macOS](#macos)
  - [Small bits](#small-bits)
- [Additional notes](#additional-notes)
  - [Resources](#resources)
  - [Projects / Configurations](#projects-configurations)
  - [People](#people)

<!--toc:end-->

### Foreword

This repository contains my **personal** configuration for my systems, so its really important that you know it's **personal** and not everything will fit your needs.
Therefore most things will not work out of the box without some changes, so be warned!!!!

> [!WARNING]
> Also to note that this configuration will **not** work if you do not change any of the [secrets](./secrets) since they are encrypted.

> [!TIP]
> You can find some cool blogs and people at the bottom of this file, or [click here](#additional-notes)

### What does this repo provided

- Several applications and tools for my needs, but you can choose the one that best suits your needs
  - `neovim`, `micro` and `vscode` for text editing
  - `firefox` and `chromium` for web browsing
  - `alacritty`, `kitty` and `wezterm` for terminal emulators
  - `bash`, `zsh`, `fish` and `nushell` for shells
- Modular configuration, so you can add or remove parts of the configuration
- Sensible defaults, so you can get started quickly
- Docs kind of
- [Catppuccin](https://github.com/catppuccin/catppuccin) everywhere, with a hint of [evergarden](https://github.com/comfysage/evergarden)

### Config layout

- 🏠 [home](./home/) Where all home-manager configurations lie
- 🖥️ [systems](./systems/)
  - ☀️ [Amaterasu](./systems/amaterasu) My high-end gaming machine
  - 🐉 [Hydra](./systems/hydra/) A super mid spec laptop
  - ⚸ [Lilith](./systems/lilith/) A NixOS ISO image that can be quickly deployed and accessed via ssh
  - ⚖️ [minerva](./systems/minerva/) A server configuration for some of my infrastructure
  - 𖤍 [Valkyrie](./systems/valkyrie/) A WSL2 host, designed to be a development environment on Windows
  - 💮 [Tatsumaki](./systems/tatsumaki/) A MacBook Air, configured to last a whole day of university
  - 🌱 [cottage](./systems/cottage/) A mid spec laptop
- 🧩 [parts](./parts/) NixOS parts breaking down the complex configuration into smaller more manageable chunks
  - 📚 [lib](./parts/lib/) Useful repeated functions
  - 🛠️ [templates](./parts/templates/) Templates for setting up development environments
  - 👾 [modules](./parts/modules/) Exported modules for NixOS, home-manager and Nix Darwin
- 🔌 [modules](./modules/)
  - [base](./modules/base/) The base configuration settings, which are common between all systems
  - [darwin](./modules/darwin/) Pre-made modules for exclusively darwin systems
  - [nixos](./modules/nixos/) Pre cooked modules for exclusively nixos systems
  - [iso](./modules/iso/) Pre-configured modules prepared for making NixOS iso images
  - [extra](./modules/extra) Extra configuration modules, for home-manager and Nix Darwin and NixOS
  - [profiles](./modules/profiles/) Pre-made profiles for different system types
    - [hardware](./modules/profiles/hardware) Optimized settings for different devices (e.g., laptop, servers, desktop)
    - [meta](./modules/profiles/meta) Optimized configurations for different natures (e.g., headless, graphical)

> [!TIP]
> When looking for my custom modules or packages you should direct yourself to [isabelroses/beapkgs](https://github.com/isabelroses/beapkgs). If you are specifically looking for remote modules (sometimes not clearly labelled), it is worth looking through the [beapkgs docs](https://isabelroses.github.io/beapkgs/).

### Usage Notes

#### Using the templates

To use the templates there are two commands you can run, they are:

- `nix flake init -t github:isabelroses/dotfiles#<template>` to initialize a new project with the template
- `nix flake new -t github:isabelroses/dotfiles#<template> <out dir>` to create a new project in the specified directory

For the full list of templates you can look in the [templates](./parts/templates/) directory or run `nix flake show github:isabelroses/dotfiles`.

<details>
<summary>

#### Shortcuts

</summary>

| SKHD Shortcut                 | Hyprland Shortcut               | What it does               |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| <kbd>CMD+RETURN</kbd>         | <kbd>SUPER+RETURN</kbd>         | open terminal              |
|                               | <kbd>SUPER+B</kbd>              | open browser               |
|                               | <kbd>SUPER+C</kbd>              | open editor                |
|                               | <kbd>SUPER+O</kbd>              | open notes                 |
|                               | <kbd>SUPER+E</kbd>              | open file manager          |
| <kbd>CMD+Q</kbd>              | <kbd>SUPER+Q</kbd>              | quit                       |
| <kbd>CMD+D</kbd>              | <kbd>SUPER+D</kbd>              | launcher                   |
|                               | <kbd>SUPER+F</kbd>              | full screen                |
| <kbd>CMD+CTRL+[number]</kbd>  | <kbd>SUPER+[number]</kbd>       | open workspace [number]    |
| <kbd>CMD+SHIFT+[number]</kbd> | <kbd>SUPER+SHIFT+[number]</kbd> | move to workspace [number] |

</details>

#### Installation Notes

##### NixOS

You might want to use the [lilith iso configuration](./systems/lilith/), provided in this repository

- To build it you can run `nix build .#images.lilith`.
- Or you can download it from the [release page](https://github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/releases/latest).

If you opted to use the lilith iso image, you can use the `iznix-install` script to install it on your system.
Otherwise, you can follow the steps below.

1. Install [NixOS](https://nixos.org/download), you might need to follow the [manual](https://nixos.org/manual/nixos/stable/index.html#sec-installation)
2. Clone this repository to `~/.config/flake`
3. Run `sudo nixos-rebuild switch --flake ~/.config/flake#<host>`

###### Dual boot

If you would like to set up duel boot with Windows, you should consider enabling secure boot.
To do so you should follow the [lanzaboote guide](https://github.com/nix-community/lanzaboote/blob/0bc127c631999c9555cae2b0cdad2128ff058259/docs/QUICK_START.md).

1. Locate the Windows EFI partition

```sh
lsblk -o NAME,FSTYPE,SIZE,MOUNTPOINT
```

2. Mount the Windows EFI partition

```sh
sudo mkdir /mnt/winboot
sudo mount /dev/nvme0n1p1 /mnt/winboot
```

3. Copy the Windows EFI files to the NixOS EFI partition

```sh
sudo rsync -av /mnt/winboot/EFI/Microsoft/ /boot/EFI/Microsoft/
```

4. Finally, clean up

```sh
sudo umount /mnt/winboot
sudo rmdir /mnt/winboot
```

##### macOS

1. Install [Lix](https://lix.systems/install/) the package manager

```sh
curl -sSf -L https://install.lix.systems/lix | sh -s -- install
```

2. Then enter a nix development shell in order to use git and other required tools

```sh
nix develop
```

3. Now we need to switch to the configuration, remember to replace `<host>` with the system you are configuring

```sh
just provision <host>
```

#### Small bits

- Anything starting with `garden` is likely a part of my internal module. So keep that in mind when reading the code.

### Additional notes

#### Resources

A collection of resources from people who just make good stuff.

- [Xe's blog](https://xeiaso.net/blog/)
- [The aux forum](https://forum.aux.computer/)
- [Viper's Blog](https://ayats.org/)
- [Nix Pills](https://nixos.org/guides/nix-pills/), this one might be a bit much if you don't care too much about the internals
- [Solène's Blog](https://dataswamp.org/~solene)
- [Jade Lovelace's blog](https://jade.fyi/)
- [Astrid's blog](https://astrid.tech/t/nixos)
- [nixpkgs news](https://nixpkgs.news/)
- [nix.dev](https://nix.dev/)
- [cafkafk's blog](https://cafkafk.dev/)
- [zimbatm's blog](https://zimbatm.com/notes)
- [my own blog](https://isabelroses.com/blog/tag/nix)
- [official wiki](https://wiki.nixos.org/wiki/NixOS_Wiki)
- [zero to nix](https://zero-to-nix.com/start)

#### Projects / Configurations

These are some configuration or projects that I have taken inspiration from or find to be of a high quality that people should also consider reading.

- [lovesegfault/nix-config](https://github.com/lovesegfault/nix-config)
- [jakehamilton/config](https://github.com/jakehamilton/config)
- [flake parts](https://flake.parts/)
- [nixos-hardware](https://github.com/NixOS/nixos-hardware)
- [getchoo/flake](https://github.com/getchoo/flake)
- [uncenter/flake](https://github.com/uncenter/flake)

#### People

Thanks to all these people otherwise this config and I would be lost.

- [comfysage](https://github.com/comfysage), for making my day that bit brighter and occasionally putting me on your back
- [getchoo](https://github.com/getchoo), for making catppucin/nix and helping a ton
- [nullishamy](https://github.com/nullishamy), for tricking me into using NixOS
- [nekowinston](https://github.com/nekowinston), for fixing half my problems
- [jakehamilton](https://github.com/jakehamilton), for teaching me too much about modules
- [nyxkrage](https://github.com/nyxkrage), for being there to answer my questions
- [NotAShelf](https://github.com/notashelf), lots of valuable information
- [Minion3665](https://github.com/Minion3665), for making me write better docs
- [Thorn](https://git.avery.garden/thorn), picrewnix????

And of course all those who star this repo!

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=isabelroses/dotfiles&type=Date)](https://star-history.com/#isabelroses/dotfiles&Date)

Commit message:

doc: add small getting-started configuration section

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img alt="dots" src="./.github/dots.svg" width="150" />
  <h1>isabel's dotfiles</h1>

  <img alt="stars" src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/isabelroses/dotfiles?color=f5c2e7&labelColor=303446&style=for-the-badge&logo=starship&logoColor=f5c2e7" />
  <img alt="ci" src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/isabelroses/dotfiles/check.yml?label=build&color=a6e3a1&labelColor=303446&style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=a6e3a1" />
  <img alt="repo size" src="https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/isabelroses/dotfiles?color=fab387&labelColor=303446&style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=fab387" />
  <img alt="license" src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?style=for-the-badge&label=License&message=GPL-3&logoColor=ca9ee6&colorA=313244&colorB=cba6f7" />
  <img alt="nixos-unstable" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/NixOS-unstable-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=303446&logo=NixOS&logoColor=white&color=91D7E3" />
</div>

<br />

![Preview image](./.github/images/main.png)

<details>
   <summary>more previews</summary>

   <p align="center">
      light mode
      <img src="./.github/images/lightmode.png" width="800px" />
   </p>

   <p align="center">
      wezterm + chromium
      <img src="./.github/images/blur.png" width="800px" />
   </p>

   <p align="center">
      neovim
      <img src="./.github/images/nvim.png" width="800px" />
   </p>
</details>

![image of my flakes topology](./.github/images/topology.png)

<!--toc:start-->

- [Foreword](#foreword)
- [What does this repo provided](#what-does-this-repo-provided)
- [Config layout](#config-layout)
- [Usage Notes](#usage-notes)
  - [Using the templates](#using-the-templates)
  - [Shortcuts](#shortcuts)
  - [Installation Notes](#installation-notes)
    - [NixOS](#nixos)
      - [Dual boot](#dual-boot)
    - [macOS](#macos)
  - [Configuration](#configuration)
  - [Small bits](#small-bits)
- [Additional notes](#additional-notes)
  - [Resources](#resources)
  - [Projects / Configurations](#projects-configurations)
  - [People](#people)

<!--toc:end-->

### Foreword

This repository contains my **personal** configuration for my systems, so its really important that you know it's **personal** and not everything will fit your needs.
Therefore most things will not work out of the box without some changes, so be warned!!!!

> [!WARNING]
> Also to note that this configuration will **not** work if you do not change any of the [secrets](./secrets) since they are encrypted.

> [!TIP]
> You can find some cool blogs and people at the bottom of this file, or [click here](#additional-notes)

### What does this repo provided

- Several applications and tools for my needs, but you can choose the one that best suits your needs
  - `neovim`, `micro` and `vscode` for text editing
  - `firefox` and `chromium` for web browsing
  - `alacritty`, `kitty` and `wezterm` for terminal emulators
  - `bash`, `zsh`, `fish` and `nushell` for shells
- Modular configuration, so you can add or remove parts of the configuration
- Sensible defaults, so you can get started quickly
- Docs kind of
- [Catppuccin](https://github.com/catppuccin/catppuccin) everywhere, with a hint of [evergarden](https://github.com/comfysage/evergarden)

### Config layout

- 🏠 [home](./home/) Where all home-manager configurations lie
- 🖥️ [systems](./systems/)
  - ☀️ [Amaterasu](./systems/amaterasu) My high-end gaming machine
  - 🐉 [Hydra](./systems/hydra/) A super mid spec laptop
  - ⚸ [Lilith](./systems/lilith/) A NixOS ISO image that can be quickly deployed and accessed via ssh
  - ⚖️ [minerva](./systems/minerva/) A server configuration for some of my infrastructure
  - 𖤍 [Valkyrie](./systems/valkyrie/) A WSL2 host, designed to be a development environment on Windows
  - 💮 [Tatsumaki](./systems/tatsumaki/) A MacBook Air, configured to last a whole day of university
  - 🌱 [cottage](./systems/cottage/) A mid spec laptop
- 🧩 [parts](./parts/) NixOS parts breaking down the complex configuration into smaller more manageable chunks
  - 📚 [lib](./parts/lib/) Useful repeated functions
  - 🛠️ [templates](./parts/templates/) Templates for setting up development environments
  - 👾 [modules](./parts/modules/) Exported modules for NixOS, home-manager and Nix Darwin
- 🔌 [modules](./modules/)
  - [base](./modules/base/) The base configuration settings, which are common between all systems
  - [darwin](./modules/darwin/) Pre-made modules for exclusively darwin systems
  - [nixos](./modules/nixos/) Pre cooked modules for exclusively nixos systems
  - [iso](./modules/iso/) Pre-configured modules prepared for making NixOS iso images
  - [extra](./modules/extra) Extra configuration modules, for home-manager and Nix Darwin and NixOS
  - [profiles](./modules/profiles/) Pre-made profiles for different system types
    - [hardware](./modules/profiles/hardware) Optimized settings for different devices (e.g., laptop, servers, desktop)
    - [meta](./modules/profiles/meta) Optimized configurations for different natures (e.g., headless, graphical)

> [!TIP]
> When looking for my custom modules or packages you should direct yourself to [isabelroses/beapkgs](https://github.com/isabelroses/beapkgs). If you are specifically looking for remote modules (sometimes not clearly labelled), it is worth looking through the [beapkgs docs](https://isabelroses.github.io/beapkgs/).

### Usage Notes

#### Using the templates

To use the templates there are two commands you can run, they are:

- `nix flake init -t github:isabelroses/dotfiles#<template>` to initialize a new project with the template
- `nix flake new -t github:isabelroses/dotfiles#<template> <out dir>` to create a new project in the specified directory

For the full list of templates you can look in the [templates](./parts/templates/) directory or run `nix flake show github:isabelroses/dotfiles`.

<details>
<summary>

#### Shortcuts

</summary>

| SKHD Shortcut                 | Hyprland Shortcut               | What it does               |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| <kbd>CMD+RETURN</kbd>         | <kbd>SUPER+RETURN</kbd>         | open terminal              |
|                               | <kbd>SUPER+B</kbd>              | open browser               |
|                               | <kbd>SUPER+C</kbd>              | open editor                |
|                               | <kbd>SUPER+O</kbd>              | open notes                 |
|                               | <kbd>SUPER+E</kbd>              | open file manager          |
| <kbd>CMD+Q</kbd>              | <kbd>SUPER+Q</kbd>              | quit                       |
| <kbd>CMD+D</kbd>              | <kbd>SUPER+D</kbd>              | launcher                   |
|                               | <kbd>SUPER+F</kbd>              | full screen                |
| <kbd>CMD+CTRL+[number]</kbd>  | <kbd>SUPER+[number]</kbd>       | open workspace [number]    |
| <kbd>CMD+SHIFT+[number]</kbd> | <kbd>SUPER+SHIFT+[number]</kbd> | move to workspace [number] |

</details>

#### Installation Notes

##### NixOS

You might want to use the [lilith iso configuration](./systems/lilith/), provided in this repository

- To build it you can run `nix build .#images.lilith`.
- Or you can download it from the [release page](https://github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/releases/latest).

If you opted to use the lilith iso image, you can use the `iznix-install` script to install it on your system.
Otherwise, you can follow the steps below.

1. Install [NixOS](https://nixos.org/download), you might need to follow the [manual](https://nixos.org/manual/nixos/stable/index.html#sec-installation)
2. Clone this repository to `~/.config/flake`
3. Run `sudo nixos-rebuild switch --flake ~/.config/flake#<host>`

###### Dual boot

If you would like to set up duel boot with Windows, you should consider enabling secure boot.
To do so you should follow the [lanzaboote guide](https://github.com/nix-community/lanzaboote/blob/0bc127c631999c9555cae2b0cdad2128ff058259/docs/QUICK_START.md).

1. Locate the Windows EFI partition

```sh
lsblk -o NAME,FSTYPE,SIZE,MOUNTPOINT
```

2. Mount the Windows EFI partition

```sh
sudo mkdir /mnt/winboot
sudo mount /dev/nvme0n1p1 /mnt/winboot
```

3. Copy the Windows EFI files to the NixOS EFI partition

```sh
sudo rsync -av /mnt/winboot/EFI/Microsoft/ /boot/EFI/Microsoft/
```

4. Finally, clean up

```sh
sudo umount /mnt/winboot
sudo rmdir /mnt/winboot
```

##### macOS

1. Install [Lix](https://lix.systems/install/) the package manager

```sh
curl -sSf -L https://install.lix.systems/lix | sh -s -- install
```

2. Then enter a nix development shell in order to use git and other required tools

```sh
nix develop
```

3. Now we need to switch to the configuration, remember to replace `<host>` with the system you are configuring

```sh
just provision <host>
```

#### Configuration

##### getting started

To start configurating your system keep in mind that there are two sides to
your configurion: the user side and system side.

###### user

The user side is configured in `/home/<user>`.

To set up a user configuration it must be declared in
`/modules/base/users/options.nix` and `/modules/base/users/<user>.nix`.

###### system

The user side is configured in `/systems/<hostname>`.

To set up a system configuration it must be declared in `/systems/default.nix`.

#### Small bits

- Anything starting with `garden` is likely a part of my internal module. So keep that in mind when reading the code.

### Additional notes

#### Resources

A collection of resources from people who just make good stuff.

- [Xe's blog](https://xeiaso.net/blog/)
- [The aux forum](https://forum.aux.computer/)
- [Viper's Blog](https://ayats.org/)
- [Nix Pills](https://nixos.org/guides/nix-pills/), this one might be a bit much if you don't care too much about the internals
- [Solène's Blog](https://dataswamp.org/~solene)
- [Jade Lovelace's blog](https://jade.fyi/)
- [Astrid's blog](https://astrid.tech/t/nixos)
- [nixpkgs news](https://nixpkgs.news/)
- [nix.dev](https://nix.dev/)
- [cafkafk's blog](https://cafkafk.dev/)
- [zimbatm's blog](https://zimbatm.com/notes)
- [my own blog](https://isabelroses.com/blog/tag/nix)
- [official wiki](https://wiki.nixos.org/wiki/NixOS_Wiki)
- [zero to nix](https://zero-to-nix.com/start)

#### Projects / Configurations

These are some configuration or projects that I have taken inspiration from or find to be of a high quality that people should also consider reading.

- [lovesegfault/nix-config](https://github.com/lovesegfault/nix-config)
- [jakehamilton/config](https://github.com/jakehamilton/config)
- [flake parts](https://flake.parts/)
- [nixos-hardware](https://github.com/NixOS/nixos-hardware)
- [getchoo/flake](https://github.com/getchoo/flake)
- [uncenter/flake](https://github.com/uncenter/flake)

#### People

Thanks to all these people otherwise this config and I would be lost.

- [comfysage](https://github.com/comfysage), for making my day that bit brighter and occasionally putting me on your back
- [getchoo](https://github.com/getchoo), for making catppucin/nix and helping a ton
- [nullishamy](https://github.com/nullishamy), for tricking me into using NixOS
- [nekowinston](https://github.com/nekowinston), for fixing half my problems
- [jakehamilton](https://github.com/jakehamilton), for teaching me too much about modules
- [nyxkrage](https://github.com/nyxkrage), for being there to answer my questions
- [NotAShelf](https://github.com/notashelf), lots of valuable information
- [Minion3665](https://github.com/Minion3665), for making me write better docs
- [Thorn](https://git.avery.garden/thorn), picrewnix????

And of course all those who star this repo!

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=isabelroses/dotfiles&type=Date)](https://star-history.com/#isabelroses/dotfiles&Date)
