docs/src/config/layout.md, before:

- 🏠 [home](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//home/) Where all home-manager configurations lie
- 🖥️ [systems](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//systems/)
  - ☀️ [Amaterasu](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//systems/amaterasu) My high-end gaming machine
  - 🐉 [Hydra](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//systems/hydra/) A super mid spec laptop
  - ⚸ [Lilith](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//systems/lilith/) A NixOS ISO image that can be quickly deployed and accessed via ssh
  - ⚖️ [minerva](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//systems/minerva/) A server configuration for some of my infrastructure
  - 𖤍 [Valkyrie](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//systems/valkyrie/) A WSL2 host, designed to be a development environment on Windows
  - 💮 [Tatsumaki](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//systems/tatsumaki/) A MacBook Air, configured to last a whole day of university
- 🧩 [parts](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//parts/) NixOS parts breaking down the complex configuration into smaller more manageable chunks
  - 📚 [lib](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//parts/lib/) Useful repeated functions
  - 🛠️ [templates](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//parts/templates/) Templates for setting up development environments
  - 👾 [modules](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//parts/modules/) Exported modules for NixOS, home-manager and Nix Darwin
- 🔌 [modules](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//modules/)
  - [base](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//modules/base/) The base configuration settings, which are common between all systems
  - [darwin](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//modules/darwin/) Pre-made modules for exclusively darwin systems
  - [nixos](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//modules/nixos/) Pre cooked modules for exclusively nixos systems
  - [iso](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//modules/iso/) Pre-configured modules prepared for making NixOS iso images
  - [extra](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//modules/extra) Extra configuration modules, for home-manager and Nix Darwin and NixOS
  - [profiles](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main//modules/profiles/) Pre-made profiles for different system types
    - [hardware](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/profiles/hardware) Optimized settings for different devices (e.g., laptop, servers, desktop)
    - [meta](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/profiles/meta) Optimized configurations for different natures (e.g., headless, graphical)

Commit message:

docs: update layouts & adding systems

docs/src/config/layout.md, after:

- 📚 [docs](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/docs/) The documentation for the dotfiles
- 🏠 [home](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/home/) Where all home-manager configurations lie
- 🖥️ [systems](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/systems/)
  - ☀️ [Amaterasu](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/systems/amaterasu/) My high-end gaming machine
  - 🏡 [Cottage](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/systems/cottage/) A Lowend laptop, its not great but it gets the job done
  - 🐉 [Hydra](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/systems/hydra/) A super mid spec laptop
  - ⚸ [Lilith](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/systems/lilith/) A NixOS ISO image that can be quickly deployed and accessed via ssh
  - ⚖️ [minerva](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/systems/minerva/) A server configuration for some of my infrastructure
  - 𖤍 [Valkyrie](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/systems/valkyrie/) A WSL2 host, designed to be a development environment on Windows
  - 💮 [Tatsumaki](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/systems/tatsumaki/) A MacBook Air, configured to last a whole day of university
  - ✨ [wisp](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/systems/wisp/) A WSL2 host, on cottage
- 🔌 [modules](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/)
  - [base](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/base/) The base configuration settings, which are common between all systems
  - [darwin](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/darwin/) Pre-made modules for exclusively darwin systems
  - [nixos](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/nixos/) Pre cooked modules for exclusively nixos systems
  - [iso](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/iso/) Pre-configured modules prepared for making NixOS iso images
  - [extra](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/extra/) Extra configuration modules, for home-manager and Nix Darwin and NixOS
  - [parts](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/falake/) NixOS parts breaking down the complex configuration into smaller more manageable chunks
    - 📚 [lib](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/flake/lib/) Useful repeated functions
    - 🛠️ [templates](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/flake/templates/) Templates for setting up development environments
    - 👾 [modules](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/flake/modules.nix) Exported modules for NixOS, home-manager and Nix Darwin
    - 📦 [packages](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/flake/packages.nix) Packages that are not available in the official Nixpkgs
  - [profiles](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/profiles/) Pre-made profiles for different system types
    - [desktop](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/profiles/desktop/) A profile for desktop systems
    - [graphical](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/profiles/graphical/) A profile for graphical systems
    - [headless](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/profiles/headless/) A profile for headless systems
    - [laptop](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/profiles/laptop/) A profile for laptop systems
    - [server](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/profiles/server/) A profile for server systems
    - [wsl](https:/github.com/isabelroses/dotfiles/tree/main/modules/profiles/wsl/) A profile for WSL2 systems
